---
title: to begin
tags: reason sound
layout: posts
---
I have found myself in a bit of a fuzzy universe. At 32 years old I have decided to move on a new path towards sound, music, and technology. For the past decade I have worked in various skilled trades jutting off this path (guitar building, speaker building, general woodworking), but I am looking to cross back and work with sound on a more fundamental level both compositionally and technically. Also, practically speaking, I hope to find work in an environment that is quieter and less physically demanding.

To begin anew is difficult. While I have spent years working with sound and tchnology, I have little proof and it is not particularly reflected in personal work I have released. So I plan to utitilize Grad School as a platform to pivot on. I am looking for both a shared language and an intellectual community with which to interact as well as real domain experience in the world of audio programming and music technology (worlds which I feel I am just on the cusp of.)

Of course, the same issues arise in the admissions process of Grad School that arose in general, namely lack of proof & portfolio worthy items. I have been apart of sound-related projects that I am quite proud of: learning to build tube amps and wind electric guitar pickups, building a few great sounding acoustics at West River Guitars, being part of the development of the Orca Mini desktop speaker, and working on building custom cabinets worthy of Feastrex drivers at Blumenstein Audio. But still, these moments are blurry from a resume/cv/portfolio perspective.

I want my portfolio for Grad School to straight-forward; to show my intuition and potential. I want my portfolio to orbit around two centers: concrete sound composition and abstract sound technology and tooling. Sound composition is concrete, I have been recording and experimenting since I was a teenager, and through the weekly Disquiet Junto there should be a variety of recent examples of my work. Sound technology and tooling is more abstract because that is the new path. It is why I want to go to Grad School in this field at all, to gain first-hand experience and exposure to people & processes of this world. I just need to show that I have the potential to learn these technologies, both for myself and for the admissions process.

So! Towards these ends the question became which platform would I learn on; which sandbox to play in. VCVRack modules, Max/MSP gens, and Reason Rack Extensions were the main contenders, but I am choosing Reason due to familiarity. I have spent time with Reason since I was in the high school and am deeply familiar with its workflow, characteristics, and audio/control expectations.

Reason Studios provides an SDK for development. Rack Extensions are mainly written in Lua (data modeling) and C++ (realtime DSP). I am bit of familiar with Lua from working on Monome Crow/druid scripts. I am not as familiar with C++, but have been working and learning in C the last year and have spent a little bit of time learning OOP principles.

Being new to the development world, I have found the documentation for technologies to be scattered, confusing, and sometimes arbitrary. I hope my plan to document this learning process will help make the learning process more explicit and intentional.
